Likewise in this lab again to install Wordpress on an EC2 instance.
Am I going to use RDS MySQL as the device backend.
So let's create our database.
I'm in the RDS management console and create database and I'm going to choose MySQL and
then we can choose the option here that says only enable options eligible for RDS free usage tier
and we'll click next and you'll see this time it doesn't ask us for the use case because it's already
configured it for the free tier and we can leave the database engine as it is.
It's going to install on a T2 micro instance you'll see that multi AZ is greyed out. You can enable
multi AZ just not part of the wizard.
So once we've complete we can add a multi AZ replica in obviously that's going to push us outside
of the free tier and that's why it's not enabled here
will leave these defaults and then we're going to come down and we're going to give our database a name.
I'm going to call it digital cloud.
I'm going to copy and paste that into my master user name my master password and my confirmed password.
So obviously this isn't very secure but this is just a temporary database.
We can then choose our VPC I'm going to choose my custom VPC.
There's already a subnet group and I'm gonna make this publicly accessible.
And we could make this publicly accessible but we don't need to for this scenario.
I could then choose data availability zone as well but in this case I don't really care.
We could now choose an existing VPC security group but I don't have any set up at this stage for RDS.
In fact there is one here from a previous installation so let's just use that one.
What will happen is if you don't select one it will create one called RDS launch with it and it will
have port 3306 enabled for inbound and usually it will then lock that down to a source IP and
it will be the IP that you're connected from.
I'm gonna paste digital cloud into the database name as well.
She will leave the port as the default.
We can't enable encryption again.
This is because of the selected engine or DB instance class does not support it.
We can leave the remaining defaults except I'm going to just disable this deletion protection and we
can click Create database
so if we head back to the main console we'll see now that this is in a state where it's creating and
that's going to take a few minutes.
So let's go and get our EC2 instance running we're going to create a new instance now and it must
be an Amazon Linux 2 AMI. Going to choose next we're going to put it into my I'm going to put
it my custom VPC and I'm gonna choose a public subnet.
We're then gonna run some codes do some installation and so I walk through this quickly and it's all gonna
be in the course downloads we're gonna do Yammer updates install our packages we're going to run the
Amazon Linux extras installation and what we're gonna do is install that PHP seven point two package.
Then going go into install start and enable the Apache service.
We're going to change to the /var/www/HTML directory.
We're then going to download the WordPress binaries.
We're gonna unzip them.
We're going to copy all the contents of the WordPress directory to the working directory and then we're
going to modify a couple of permissions.
And don't forget the missing piece here which is the path to your interpreter at the top.
And let's just click next.
Next configure our security groups and just choose our web access and I'm going to launch this instance
and it might take a few minutes to install the PHP 7.2 package especially takes quite a few
minutes sometimes to install so that could delay your instance coming online.
So it's been a few minutes are instances now running.
Let's take its public IP and just see if our installation worked.
And it does so this is the WordPress setup screen now that's great.
But what we need to do first is before we run that is just get locked into the instance.
So I'm going to SSA Chen and we can come back to the wordpress installation screen now and just click.
Let's go
and what we need to do is go over to order Yes and we're going to grab this end point copy that to our
clipboard and paste us into where it says database host.
We then need to specify the name of our database.
So digital cloud I use the same for my username and password.
You leave the table prefix as it is and then hit submit.
So what we're gonna do now is copy this code go back to our instance and we're going to change directory
to var/www/html
that is and what we should see in here is that we've got a lot of files for WordPress
and we want to run sudo nano WP dash config dot pHP and then paste in all that code and then save
that file and now let's head back to the installation and we'll click Run installation and that's great.
So we've got our site installed.
Now let's give it a site title so let's call this my wordpress RDS test and I'm going to give it
a user name.
That's just cool.
This will nail and I'm gonna give it a password.
I'm just going to call it digital cloud again.
I've got to confirm the use of that weak password and it's gonna call it nail apps digital cloud testing
dot com or something fake like that and then install Wordpress
we can now log in
and we're logged into our site using our RDS database.
So now let's go to posts.
Now we've got the hello world post here.
Let's just add something new and I'm gonna put in as the title
digital cloud RDS test and then we could put something in here like for instance let's just put
an image in so I'm going to choose upload and let's choose our lambda image and then we've just published
that post
right.
So we've got the Post published.
And if you click View Post that's the that's what we will say that saw a new post and what I want to
do now is show you how we can look inside the database in order.
Yes.
So we're going to head back over to the command line.
What we're gonna do now is install the utility HP my admin and to do this.
We need to install a dependency first.
So I'm going to do yum install GHB M.B. string dash y and we're gonna need to do this as sudo
and then as should just to make things easier let's just switch to root for the remaining commands and
I'm gonna run system CCL
restart page TPD
and we also want to restart P.H. BHP dash FP and and then the next thing to do then is to get the binaries
for page my admin so I've I'm going to use this command wget and then this is the path or we'll be
in the course downloads and then we have this rather lengthy command which unpacks and sets this up
for us.
So let's just run this command and if we just one else we should see the PHP my admin folder let's go
in there and we should be able to find a file called config.sample.php and what we
need to do is we'll copy that file.
So let's just put in the name of the file so it's config the sample and excuse me we need to copy it
to config by and see BHP.
So just get rid of the sample and then we're going to do nano config.
I can say that BHP and we want to come down to where we've got this line this says serve as host.
And it says local host and we're just going to backspace local host and then I'm going to go back over
two ideas and I just need to grab that end point address again and then we'll come back paste that in
and we're going to save that file
and with any luck.
What would be I to do now is just use this IP address and then we're going to go to PHP myadmin and
here we are.
So let's put in the username a password for this site or for this database which is digital.
Digital cloud digital cloud and hit go.
So there we are we're actually in the database now so we're connected into our RDS database and
we can see our digital cloud database tables here.
And if we went down to for instance posts we can see our digital cloud RDS test post that we just
installed.
So just a way of visualizing you know what you've actually done here.
You've created a wordpress database within RDS and that's now running successfully from your EC2
instance in the next lab.
What we're going to do is enable multi AZ for our database and then we gonna fail our database over
and see what happens.